.\" Man page for create-ssl-csr.sh
.\" Written in classic troff/groff format
.TH CREATE-SSL-CSR 1 "2026-03-27" "create-ssl-csr 1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
create-ssl-csr \- generate private keys and certificate signing requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B create-ssl-csr.sh
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-\-ca ]
.RB [ \-\-self\-signed ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B create-ssl-csr.sh
generates an RSA private key and a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) to be
submitted to a Certificate Authority (CA). It uses configurable variables
defined at the top of the script to populate the distinguished name and
Subject Alternative Name (SAN) fields.
.PP
Optionally, it can:
.IP \(bu 3
Generate a CA certificate (with keyCertSign and cRLSign key usage)
.IP \(bu
Generate a self-signed certificate from the CSR
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-ca
Generate a CA certificate. Sets basicConstraints to CA:true and keyUsage to
keyCertSign and cRLSign.
.TP
.B \-\-self\-signed
Also generate a self-signed certificate using the generated key and CSR.
The validity period is controlled by the
.B DAYS_VALID
configuration variable (default: 365 days).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The following variables should be edited at the top of the script before use:
.TP
.B SITE
Site identifier (default: "site1").
.TP
.B ORGDOMAIN
Organization domain (default: "my.corp").
.TP
.B COUNTRY
Two-letter country code (default: "PY").
.TP
.B STATE
Full state or province name (default: "Central").
.TP
.B LOCALITY
City name (default: "Asuncion").
.TP
.B ORG
Organization name (default: "Super Corp").
.TP
.B ORG_UNIT
Organizational unit (default: "IT Infra").
.TP
.B EMAIL
Contact email address (default: "admin@${ORGDOMAIN}").
.TP
.B DAYS_VALID
Certificate validity in days for self-signed certificates (default: 365).
.SH REQUIREMENTS
The following command must be available in
.BR PATH :
.PP
.RS
.BR openssl (1)
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
Error: invalid options or unexpected arguments.
.SH EXAMPLES
Generate a standard CSR:
.PP
.RS
.B ./create-ssl-csr.sh
.RE
.PP
Generate a self-signed certificate:
.PP
.RS
.B ./create-ssl-csr.sh \-\-self\-signed
.RE
.PP
Generate a self-signed CA certificate:
.PP
.RS
.B ./create-ssl-csr.sh \-\-ca \-\-self\-signed
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Ciro Iriarte <ciro.iriarte+software@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR openssl (1),
.BR openssl\-req (1),
.BR openssl\-x509 (1)
