.\" Man page for guacamole-reset-user-otp.sh
.\" Written in classic troff/groff format
.TH GUACAMOLE-RESET-USER-OTP 1 "2026-03-27" "guacamole-reset-user-otp 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
guacamole-reset-user-otp \- reset TOTP enrollment for a Guacamole user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B guacamole-reset-user-otp.sh
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-version ]
.I username
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B guacamole-reset-user-otp.sh
resets the TOTP (Time-based One-Time Password) enrollment for a specified
user in Apache Guacamole. After running, the target user will be prompted
to re-enroll their OTP device on their next login.
.PP
The script updates the
.B guac-totp-key-confirmed
attribute in the Guacamole database, setting it to
.BR false .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I username
The Guacamole username whose OTP enrollment should be reset. Required.
Only alphanumeric characters, dots, hyphens, underscores, and @ are
accepted.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The following variables should be edited at the top of the script:
.TP
.B DBNAME
Guacamole database name (default: "guacamole").
.TP
.B DBCMD
MySQL command to use. By default, uses
.B mysql
which reads credentials from
.IR ~/.my.cnf .
An alternative with inline credentials is provided as a comment.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
The following command must be available in
.BR PATH :
.PP
.RS
.BR mysql (1)
.RE
.PP
A working Guacamole database with the native TOTP module enabled is required.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
Error: missing username, invalid username format, or invalid options.
.SH EXAMPLES
Reset OTP enrollment for a user:
.PP
.RS
.B ./guacamole-reset-user-otp.sh ciro.iriarte
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Ciro Iriarte <ciro.iriarte+software@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mysql (1)
