.\" Man page for memory-usage-report-esxi.sh
.\" Written in classic troff/groff format
.TH MEMORY-USAGE-REPORT-ESXI 1 "2026-03-27" "memory-usage-report-esxi 1.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
memory-usage-report-esxi \- basic ESXi host memory usage and optimization summary
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B memory-usage-report-esxi.sh
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-v | \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-\-output
.IR FORMAT ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B memory-usage-report-esxi.sh
provides a memory usage and optimization report for VMware ESXi hypervisor
hosts. It collects data from the host and all registered virtual machines
using native ESXi tools.
.PP
The report includes:
.IP \(bu 3
Host total, used, and free memory
.IP \(bu
Per-VM memory allocation and configured RAM
.IP \(bu
Per-VM ballooning, swapping, compression, and shared memory metrics
.IP \(bu
Per-VM guest, host, granted, private, and overhead memory
.IP \(bu
Aggregate totals across all VMs
.PP
Supports
.BR table " (default),"
.BR csv ", and"
.B json
output formats.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-output " FORMAT"
Set the output format.
.I FORMAT
must be one of:
.RS
.TP
.B table
Default. Human-readable report with headers, separators, per-VM details,
and aggregate totals.
.TP
.B csv
VM table only. Comma-separated values with columns: ID, VM Name, RAM (GB),
Balloon (GB), Swap (GB), Compress (GB), Shared (GB), Guest (GB), Host (GB),
Granted (GB), Private (GB), Overhead (GB).
.TP
.B json
Full structured report as a single JSON object containing:
.BR host_summary ", " vms " (array), and " totals .
.RE
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display usage information and exit.
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.B memory-usage-report-esxi.sh
must be run as
.B root
directly on the ESXi host (via SSH or local shell).
.PP
The following commands must be available:
.PP
.RS
.BR vsish ,
.BR vim-cmd ,
.BR awk (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR sed (1)
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful execution.
.TP
.B 1
Error: not running as root, missing required commands, or invalid options.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run the default table report:
.PP
.RS
.B ./memory-usage-report-esxi.sh
.RE
.PP
CSV output (VM table only):
.PP
.RS
.B ./memory-usage-report-esxi.sh \-\-output csv
.RE
.PP
JSON output (full report):
.PP
.RS
.B ./memory-usage-report-esxi.sh \-\-output json
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Ciro Iriarte <ciro.iriarte+software@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vsish (1),
.BR vim-cmd (1)
